Hello there.
This is the new Lulu and we'll come back.
Let's now go ahead and install Eclipse.
So just Google for Eclipse Download.
And the first link here points to the downloads and it's from the website Eclipse dot org, which is
the official website of Eclipse Foundation, which is the organization which is actively developing
Eclipse IDE, which is an open source project.
So apart from Eclipse IDE, they also are developing other projects.
But Eclipse IDE is the main project, so they're all open source projects.
So here the latest version of Eclipse IDE is 2020, hyphen or six.
And here this will help you to download an installer using which you can install eclipse IDE.
But let's not do that.
Let's download from here.
From here you can download a zip file which has the eclipse ID.
So let's do that.
And here there are eclipse IDs for different purposes.
So this is for Java developers.
Using this you can develop simple Java SE applications and here is the eclipse IDE for enterprise Java
developers.
So using this particular version, you can develop Java EE applications and this is a superset of this
one, which means that you can also do whatever you can do with this, so you can develop the core Java
C applications or you can also develop Java EE applications.
And this is what we are going to download and there are also eclipse IDs for other purposes for C and
C++ developers, for PHP developers and so on and so forth.
And you can check it out.
So but what we are interested in is this one.
So in future you may see the layout may be different, but your goal will be to download this particular
one.
So the path may be different.
The way we reached here could be different, but you should be able to easily figure that out.
And here we have downloads for different operating systems, so we are going to download a 64 bit eclipse.
In my case it's Windows and I have already downloaded that.
So Eclipse is essentially a Java application and it needs a JVM, which we already have.
But if you are using a 32 bit JVM, which is very unlikely in that case, you need to install a 32 bit
eclipse.
So for a 64 bit JVM, we need a 64 bit eclipse, which is what we are going to do here.
But if it is a 32 bit JVM that you have, then you need to install a 32 bit eclipse.
Now, the latest version of Eclipse here does not offer 32 bit eclipse.
So what you need to do is you need to install an older version of Eclipse.
So here are the older versions.
What we have, what we are installing is 2020, hyphen or six.
Then the next older version.
The first older version is this one.
So this is older than this one.
So these are all the previous versions and this is the oldest version.
And you also have older versions than that.
But here this particular one two 2018 hyphen zero nine is the recent, most recent version which is
offering a 32 bit eclipse.
So you can use this downloaded from here.
So it's just a zip file.
So if you click here, you can download it and it essentially downloads a zip file and you just need
to unzip it.
So let me show the drive.
So in the C drive, I have three versions of Eclipse.
Eclipse, and these are two other versions.
And this is the latest version which we just saw.
So this is the oldest version.
So once you unzip it, you will find a folder called Eclipse.
You just need to extract extract that particular folder.
Now, that's what I did when I installed this one.
But now I have two more versions, so I cannot just extract the Eclipse folder because it's going to
override this.
So I created this particular directory called 2020 hyphen or six, and within that I extracted the eclipse
folder.
So this is Eclipse, and if at all, I want to uninstall it.
All we need to do is just delete this particular folder and we are done with it.
Now here, let's go into eclipse.
So this is the executable.
This is what you will click on in order to launch Eclipse.
Now, like I said earlier, Eclipse is written in Java.
So it's a Java application.
And in order to run it, we need to have JVM installed on our machine.
So if you click here, this particular launcher will look for JVM.
It has a lookup process and the last step is to look up in the path environment variable.
So let's not worry about the lookup process itself.
So it looks for that path in a couple of places, but let's not worry about it.
But since we already have it here and we have it on the we have set the path in the in the path environment
variable, we are good.
Now on my machine it is here.
So I have the JDK 14.
So that's the latest version here.
So you must be having one of the Java versions.
Now for this eclipse, we at least need this particular eclipse.
We at least need Java eight.
Now once we launch it, we can change to a different Java two.
But in order to launch this, we need at least Java eight.
Now, if your company is using an older version of Java, let's say Java seven, then what you can do
is in order to use this eclipse, download a later version of Java like Java eight or Java 14, like
in my case.
But once we launch it, you can still use an older version of Java like Java seven or any other version,
and that I will show in one of the subsequent lectures.
So that's it.
And in the next lecture I will will launch this Eclipse application, and we will write our first Java
program and we will also explore a few features of Eclipse.
Thank you and I will see you in the next lecture.